so look at here's the two responses
I guess reflexes that are wired into the
muscles one is the the monosynaptic
stretch reflex which is gets mediated by
the muscle spindles so this is the one
we win the muscle lengthens and the
belly of the muscle you've got the
muscle spindles and and they detect that
rate of change in length and they fire
off signals accordingly so if we have a
look here this muscle is being stretched
and as a result it's firing off signals
and it's causing a contraction in the in
the muscle so what it's doing is it's
actually trying to maintain its length
and this is one of those protective
mechanisms so Kevin look at the end the
muscles being stretched those muscle
spindles are being stretched and they go
and tell that muscle to contract now
obviously they'll be voluntary messages
overlaid from the nervous system the
central nervous system to tell the
muscle to continue to lengthen and a
normal contraction so for instance if we
were lowering the weight on a barbell
cool if we were lowering it down then we
will continue to let their muscle
lengthen but there is always this
feedback loop going on which will
control the rate of lengthening so
that's the muscle spindles in action if
we look at the Golgi tendon organ what's
happening here is if there's a lot of
nerve assistant fire and going into that
muscle obviously the muscle would
produce a heck of a lot of force and
that force is always transferred through
the tendon there now as we know the old
Gogi tendon organs don't like a whole
lot of force and what they do is they
fire off a signal for inhibitory neuron
to neuron which means that they will
tell the
muscle to stop firing so if we have a
look at that again here's the first burg
firing a force that comes down there's
actually too much force in the muscle
the t Golgi tendon organ has detected
that and ascending signals back to this
inhibitory interneuron which is going to
cause the shutdown of this contractions
to reduce the force so let's have a look
at that again we get that initial
contraction which is too much the goalie
tendon organ activates comes back this
is an inhibitory motor neuron and it's
telling us to stop see there's no more
firing coming out of here now you
actually see this at times this exact
response of someone's for instance doing
a bench press and they're right at the
end of the set and they're absolute it
and there's a lot of teaching a lot of
force within their muscle belly and and
the pectorals and the chest they will
sometimes get this happening and what
happens is that this Reese this reflex
shuts off the peak muscles and of course
if you're doing a bench press and the
bars above you and you're about to wreck
it and those might and that peak muscle
shuts off the bar comes straight back
down towards you pretty quickly as well
so what you'll see there is people who
are really struggling and particularly
if they're lifting weights that are
really outside of what their reflexes
are used to what the Goldi tendons are
used to they can't actually end up with
that they're dropping of the weight back
onto them quite useful because if you
think of the other option as is actually
the tendons getting pulled off the bones
now I have been in the gym before where
I've seen someone tear their pick
straight off they're off their bone so
the Agoge tendon organ didn't fire that
said they were used to this amount of
force they could cope with it but
instead what happened is this tendon
here just got pulled straight off the
bone and it's a it's a very nasty injury
as well so the goalie Tynan organs then
very protective
and quite handy to have working properly